TITLE:  AUTOMATIC STREET LIGHT CONTROLLER USING ATMEGA 328P MICRO CONTROLLER


Traffic lights are signalling devices that are conceived to control the traffic flows at road intersections, pedestrian crossing, rail train and other locations. Traffic lights consists
of three universal coloured lights: the green light allows traffic to proceed in the indicated direction, the yellow light warms vehicles to prepare for short stop and the red signal
prohibits any traffic from proceeding.
In modern life we have to face with many problems one of
which is traffic congestion becoming more serious day after
day. It is said that the high volume of vehicles, the inadequate
infrastructure and the irrational distribution of the
development are main reasons for increasing traffic jam. The
major cause leading to traffic congestion is the high number
of vehicles which was caused by the population and the
development of economy. Traffic congestion is a condition
on road networks that occurs as use increases and is
characterized by slower speeds, longer trip times and
increased vehicular queuing.

The conventional traffic system needs to be upgraded to solve
the severe traffic congestion, alleviate transportation troubles,
reduce traffic volume and waiting time, minimize overall
travel time, optimize cars safety and efficiency and expand the
benefits in health, economic and environmental sector. This
paper proposes a simple, low-cost and real time digital traffic
light control system. In the simplest sense digital traffic light
control system adjust the timing of their green light cycles to
match current traffic conditions on the road. They are
constantly collecting data about approaching vehicles in front
of IR sensor device and software creating new timing sequence
to match them by using timer IC. This sensor is mounted both
side on the road at the particular distance from an intersection
point.
Traffic congestion is now considered to be one of the biggest
problems will be also much more widely increasing as an
expected result of the growing number of transportation means
and current low-quality infrastructure of the roads. In addition,
many studies and statistics were generated in developing
countries that proved that most of the road accidents are
because of the very narrow roads and because of the
destructive increase in the transportation means. The vehicles
engine emitted an environmental hazardous gases due to heavy
traffic congestion at the traffic signal. We use the air pollution
detector sensor to detect the daily average pollution in
percentage and it is display on the digital display.
2. HARDWARE COMPONENT
2.1 IR sensor
An Infrared sensor or IR sensor is an electronic device
implemented to obstacle sensing, colour detection, fire
detection or to differentiate between objects depending on its
feature. The sensor provides a digital output. The IR sensor
emits or receives the infrared radiations (430 THz – 300 GHz)
that are invisible for the human eye. The sensor outputs a logic
one (+5V) at the digital output when an obstacle is come in
front of the sensor and a logic zero (0V), when there is no
obstacle in front of the sensor. LED is used to indicate the
presence of an object.
Fig.(a): IR sensor
2.2 ATmega328P Microcontroller
The ATmega328 is a single-chip microcontroller created by
Atmel in the mega AVR family (later Microchip Technology
acquired Atmel in 2016). It is an 8-bit and 28 pins AVR
Microcontroller and has a flash type program memory of
32KB. It has an EEPROM memory of 1KB and its SRAM
memory is of 2KB. It has 8 pin for ADC operations, which
all combines to form Port A (PA0 – PA7). It has 14 digital
I/O pins, of which 6 can be used as PWM outputs and 6
analog input pins. These I/O pins account for 20 of the pins.

Microcontroller
2.3 16x2 LCD Display Module
An LCD is an electronic display module which uses liquid
crystal to produce a visible images. The 16x2 LCD display is a
very basic module commonly used in DIYs and circuits. The
16x2 translates 0 a display 16 characters per line in 2 such
lines.

2.4 Air pollution sensor
Air pollution sensors are devices that monitor the presence of
air pollution in the surrounding area. They can be used for both
indoor and outdoor environments. Although there are various
types of air pollution sensor. We used MQ135 Gas Sensor
module for Air Quality having digital as well as analog output.
Sensitive material of MQ135 gas sensor is SnO2, which with
lower conductivity in clean air. When the target combustible
gas exist, The sensors conductivity is more higher along with
the gas concentration rising. MQ135 gas sensor has high
sensitivity to ammonia, sulphide and benze steam, also
sensitive to smoke and other harmful gases.
It is with low cost and suitable for different application. At
best, low-cost air quality sensors can provide air quality
monitoring of specific pollutants.

 WORKING
A digital traffic control system can be made using IR sensors
along with micro controller and LED’s which can prove a
worth for the real time application controlling traffic signals
based on the congestion of traffic. IR sensor placed in the
entire intersecting road at fixed distance from the signal placed
in the junction the time delay in the traffic signal is set based
on the congestion of vehicles on the road.
The IR sensor is used to change the number of vehicles in the
road according to the IR count, microcontroller takes
appropriate decisions as to which road is to be given the
highest priority and the longest time delay for the
corresponding traffic light. We will be implement IR sensor
in the range of 50m’s to 100m’s range in real time
implementation.
The system consist of the following three hardware
components: Display, Detector & Controller. We used three
type of LED’s Red, Yellow & Green each side of junction.
Detector sense the presence of vehicles in front of sensor and
send the signal to the microcontroller for increasing the new
time sequence.
We used MQ135 gas sensor module to sense air pollution due
to density of traffic at the traffic signal in urban area. Display
the daily average percentage of air pollution in the traffic
areas.

 ADVANTAGES AND APPLICATION
Digital traffic control reduce traffic congestion and time
spend on the road to Improve efficiency. Make the road safer
and reducing the chance of accidence. It provide data to
further improve transportation. It reduce the possibilities of
traffic jams caused by traffic lights an extend and decreases
pollution by reducing congestion.
This Traffic Control system is very efficiently used in metro
cities. It will help us to reduce traffic problems in urban areas.
It is used to reduce the rout of traffic.
